Appendix A: Details on preparation and sequencing of the genomic libraries based on the Peterson et al. (2012) protocol.

Appendix B: Details on reads processing for phylogenetic analyses using the ipyrad pipeline.

Table S1: 278 samples used in the genomics analyses with information about the locality, species group, sex, institution of origin of the samples, and sample type: fresh tissue (FR), dry muscle from skull (DR), and skin (SK). AMNH-AMCC: Ambrose Monell Cryo Collection, American Museum of Natural History, New York, USA; CIT: Coleção de Tecidos Miguel Trefaut Rodrigues, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; FMNH: Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago, Illinois, USA; LMUSP: Laboratório de Mamíferos da Escola Superior de Agricultura “Luiz de Queiroz”, Universidade de São Paulo, Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil; MCN-M: Coleção de Mastozoologia do Museu de Ciências Naturais da Pontíficia Universidade Católica de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil; MN: Museu Nacional da Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; MPEG: Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi, Belém, Pará, Brazil; MSB: Museum of Southwestern Biology, Alburqueque, New Mexico, USA; MVZ: Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, Berkeley, California, USA; MZUSP: Museu de Zoologia da Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; NMNH: National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C., USA; ROM: Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; TTU: Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas, USA; UFES-CTA: Coleção de Tecido Animal da Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo, Vitória, Espírito Santo; Brazil; UFMG: Coleção de Mamíferos, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil; UFPB: Univerisade Federal da Paraíba, João Pessoa, Paraíba, Brazil; UMMZ: University of Michigan Museum of Zoology, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

Table S2: 479 morphometric samples with raw values for 22 variables, information about locality, species group, sex, institution of origin of the samples, and the groupings of the samples for the three analyses carried out in the iBPP. AMNH: American Museum of Natural History, New York, USA; FMNH: Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago, Illinois, USA; LMUSP: Laboratório de Mamíferos da Escola Superior de Agricultura “Luiz de Queiroz”, Universidade de São Paulo, Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil; MCN-M: Coleção de Mastozoologia do Museu de Ciências Naturais da Pontíficia Universidade Católica de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil; MN: Museu Nacional da Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; MPEG: Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi, Belém, Pará, Brazil; MVZ: Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, Berkeley, California, USA; MZUSP: Museu de Zoologia da Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; NMNH: National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C., USA; UFES-MAM: Coleção de Mamíferos da Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo, Vitória, Espírito Santo; Brazil; UFMG: Coleção de Mamíferos, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil; UFPB: Univerisade Federal da Paraíba, João Pessoa, Paraíba, Brazil; UMMZ: University of Michigan Museum of Zoology, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA. See text for acronymns.

Table S3: RAD processing results of the three genomic libraries, showing in the initial number and post-filters of reads, clusters, values of heterozygosity (H) and its error (HE), the final number of clusters after correction by heterozygosity, the number of loci retained and samples used for the conservative trees (CT) inferences, and information on the samples that were used in strict tree inferences (ST). Of the 278 initial samples (270 Proechimys + 8 outgroup), 235 were sequenced, the others had little amount of extracted or digested DNA and they needed to be removed from the libraries. Some samples were excluded from the phyloegenetic analyses because they had less than 100,000 filtered reads or less than 50 retained loci. In addition, there is information about the five main clades and 41 subclasses, where the sample was recovered in the conservative tree.

Table S7: Available cytogenetic, mtDNA, and nuDNA data in the literature for the 41 subclades from the conservative trees of Proechimys, organized by the five main clades. I provided the names and acronyms of the subclades, original source for the data (References), and how the association with the present study was made (Associated by): the same specimen used in the conservative trees, other individuals from the same locality or by specimens from a nearby locality. Locality from original source is informed as well as the taxa name given by the authors. Diploid number (2n) and fundamental number (NF) are reported, and when available, the name of the clade and marker recovered by mitochondrial and nuclear DNA. Questions marks (?) indicate that it was not possible to associate the literature information to the subclade.
